ly terminate in the good of the public.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
When parties in a state are violent, he offered a wonderful contrivance to
reconcile them. The method is this: You take a hundred leaders of each party;
you dispose them into couples of such whose heads are nearest of a size; then
let two nice operators saw off the occiput of each couple at the same time, in
such a manner that the brain may be equally divided. Let the occiputs, thus cut
off, be interchanged, applying each to the head of his opposite party-man. It
seems indeed to be a work that requires some exactness, but the professor
assured us, &ldquo;that if it were dexterously performed, the cure would be
infallible.&rdquo; For he argued thus: &ldquo;that the two half brains being
left to debate the matter between themselves within the space of one skull,
would soon come to a good understanding, and produce that moderation, as well
as regularity of thinking, so much to be wished for in the heads of those, who
imagine they come into the world only to watch and govern its motion: and as to
the difference of brains, in quantity or quality, among those who are directors
in faction,&rdquo; the doctor assured us, from his own knowledge, that
&ldquo;it was a perfect trifle.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
I heard a very warm debate between two professors, about the most commodious
and effectual ways and means of raising money, without grieving the subject.
The first affirmed, &ldquo;the justest method would be, to lay a certain tax
upon vices and folly; and the sum fixed upon every man to be rated, after the
fairest manner, by a jury of his neighbours.&rdquo; The second was of an
opinion directly contrary; &ldquo;to tax those qualities of body and mind, for
which men chiefly value themselves; the rate to be more or less, according to
the degrees of excelling; the decision whereof should be left entirely to their
own breast.&rdquo; The highest tax was upon men who are the greatest favourites
of the other sex, and the assessments, according to the number and nature of
the favours they have received; for which, they are allowed to be their own
vouchers. Wit, valour, and politeness, were likewise proposed to be largely
taxed, and collected in the same manner, by every person&rsquo;s giving his own
word for the quantum of what he possessed. But as to honour, justice, wisdom,
and learning, they should not be taxed at all; because they are qualifications
of so singular a kind, that no man will either allow them in his neighbour or
value them in himself.
</p>

<p>
The women were proposed to be taxed according to their beauty and skill in
dressing, wherein they had the same privilege with the men, to be determined by
their own judgment. But constancy, chastity, good sense, and good nature, were
not rated, because they would not bear the charge of collecting.
</p>

<p>
To keep senators in the interest of the crown, it was proposed that the members
should raffle for employments; every man first taking an oath, and giving
security, that he would vote for the court, whether he won or not; after which,
the losers had, in their turn, the liberty of raffling upon the next vacancy.
Thus, hope and expectation would be kept alive; none would complain of broken
promises, but impute their disappointments wholly to fortune, whose shoulders
are broader and stronger than those of a ministry.
</p>

<p>
Another professor showed me a large paper of instructions for discovering plots
and conspiracies against the government. He advised great statesmen to examine
into the diet of all suspected persons; their times of eating; upon which side
they lay in bed; with which hand they wipe their posteriors; take a strict view
of their excrements, and, from the colour, the odour, the taste, the
consistence, the crudeness or maturity of digestion, form a judgment of their
thoughts and designs; because men are never so serious, thoughtful, and intent,
as when they are at stool, which he found by frequent experiment; for, in such
conjunctures, when he used, merely as a trial, to consider which was the best
way of murdering the king, his ordure would have a tincture of green; but quite
different, when he thought only of raising an insurrection, or burning the
metropolis.
</p>

<p>
The whole discourse was written with great acuteness, containing many
observations, both curious and useful for politicians; but, as I conceived, not
altogether complete. This I ventured to tell the author, and offered, if he
pleased, to supply him with some additions. He received my proposition with
more compliance than is usual among writers, especially those of the projecting
species, professing &ldquo;he would be glad to receive further
information.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
I told him, &ldquo;that in the kingdom of Tribnia,<a href="#fn-3" name="fnref-3" id="fnref-3"><sup>[454a]</sup></a>
by the natives called Langden,<a href="#fn-4" name="fnref-4" id="fnref-4"><sup>[454b]</sup></a>
where I had sojourned some time in my travels, the bulk of the people consist
in a manner wholly of discoverers, witnesses, informers, accusers, prosecutors,
evidences, swearers, together with their several subservient and subaltern
instruments, all under the colours, the conduct, and the pay of ministers of
state, and their deputies. The plots, in that kingdom, are usually the
workmanship of those persons who desire to raise their own characters of
profound politicians; to restore new vigour to a crazy administration; to
stifle or divert general discontents; to fill their coffers with forfeitures;
and raise, or sink the opinion of public credit, as either shall best answer
their private advantage. It is first agreed and settled among them, what
suspected persons shall be accused of a plot; then, effectual care is taken to
secure all their letters and papers, and put the owners in chains. These papers
are delivered to a set of artists, very dexterous in finding out the mysterious
meanings of words, syllables, and letters: for instance, they can discover a
close stool, to signify a privy council; a flock of geese, a senate; a lame
dog, an invader; a codshead; a &mdash;&mdash;; the plague, a standing army; a
buzzard, a prime minister; the gout, a high priest; a gibbet, a secretary of
state; a chamber pot, a committee of grandees; a sieve, a court lady; a broom,
a revolution; a mouse-trap, an employment; a bottomless pit, a treasury; a
sink, a court; a cap and bells, a favourite; a broken reed, a court of justice;
an empty tun, a general; a running sore, the administration.<a href="#fn-5" name="fnref-5" id="fnref-5"><sup>[455]</sup></a>
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;When this method fails, they have two others more effectual, which the
learned among them call acrostics and anagrams. First, they can decipher all
initial letters into political meanings. Thus <i>N</i>. shall signify a plot;
<i>B</i>. a regiment of horse; <i>L</i>. a fleet at sea; or, secondly, by
transposing the letters of the alphabet in any suspected paper, they can lay
open the deepest designs of a discontented party. So, for example, if I should
say, in a letter to a friend, &lsquo;Our brother Tom has just got the
piles,&rsquo; a skilful decipherer would discover, that the same letters which
compose that sentence, may be analysed into the following words, &lsquo;Resist,
a plot is brought home; The tour.&rsquo; And this is the anagrammatic
method.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
The professor made me great acknowledgments for communicating these
observations, and promised to make honourable mention of me in his treatise.
</p>

<p>
I saw nothing in this country that could invite me to a longer continuance, and
began to think of returning home to England.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h3>CHAPTER VII.</h3>

<p class="letter">
The author leaves Lagado: arrives at Maldonada. No ship ready. He takes a short
voyage to Glubbdubdrib. His reception by the governor.
</p>

<p>
The continent, of which this kingdom is apart, extends itself, as I have reason
to believe, eastward, to that unknown tract of America westward of California;
and north, to the Pacific Ocean, which is not above a hundred and fifty miles
from Lagado; where there is a good port, and much commerce with the great
island of Luggnagg, situated to the north-west about 29 degrees north latitude,
and 140 longitude. This island of Luggnagg stands south-eastward of Japan,
about a hundred leagues distant. There is a strict alliance between the
Japanese emperor and the king of Luggnagg; which affords frequent opportunities
of sailing from one island to the other. I determined therefore to direct my
course this way, in order to direct my return to Europe. I hired two mules,
with a guide, to show me the way, and carry my small baggage. I took leave of
my noble protector, who had shown me so much favour, and made me a generous
present at my departure.
</p>

<p>
My journey was without any accident or adventure worth relating. When I arrived
at the port of Maldonada (for so it is called) there was no ship in the harbour
bound for Luggnagg, nor likely to be in some time. The town is about as large
as Portsmouth. I soon fell into some acquaintance, and was very hospitably
received. A gentleman of distinction said to me, &ldquo;that since the ships
bound for Luggnagg could not be ready in less than a month, it might be no
disagreeable amusement for me to take a trip to the little island of
Glubbdubdrib, about five leagues off to the south-west.&rdquo; He offered
himself and a friend to accompany me, and that I should be provided with a
small convenient bark for the voyage.
</p>

<p>
Glubbdubdrib, as nearly as I can interpret the word, signifies the island of
sorcerers or magicians. It is about one third as large as the Isle of Wight,
and extremely fruitful: it is governed by the head of a certain tribe, who are
all magicians. This tribe marries only among each other, and the eldest in
succession is prince or governor. He has a noble palace, and a park of about
three thousand acres, surrounded by a wall of hewn stone twenty feet high. In
this park are several small enclosures for cattle, corn, and gardening.
</p>

<p>
The governor and his family are served and attended by domestics of a kind
somewhat unusual. By his skill in necromancy he has a power of calling whom he
pleases from the dead, and commanding their service for twenty-four hours, but
no longer; nor can he call the same persons up again in less than three months,
except upon very extraordinary occasions.
</p>

<p>
When we arrived at the island, which was about eleven in the morning, one of
the gentlemen who accompanied me went to the governor, and desired admittance
for a stranger, who came on purpose to have the honour of attending on his
highness. This was immediately granted, and we all three entered the gate of
the palace between two rows of guards, armed and dressed after a very antic
manner, and with something in their countenances that made my flesh creep with
a horror I cannot express. We passed through several apartments, between
servants of the same sort, ranked on each side as before, till we came to the
chamber of presence; where, after three profound obeisances, and a few general
questions, we were permitted to sit on three stools, near the lowest step of
his highness&rsquo;s throne. He understood the language of Balnibarbi, although
it was different from that of this island. He desired me to give him some
account of my travels; and, to let me see that I should be treated without
ceremony, he dismissed all his attendants with a turn of his finger; at which,
to my great astonishment, they vanished in an instant, like visions in a dream
when we awake on a sudden. I could not recover myself in some time, till the
governor assured me, &ldquo;that I should receive no hurt;&rdquo; and observing
my two companions to be under no concern, who had been often entertained in the
same manner, I began to take courage, and related to his highness a short
history of my several adventures; yet not without some hesitation, and
frequently looking behind me to the place where I had seen those domestic
spectres. I had the honour to dine with the governor, where a new set of ghosts
served up the meat, and waited at table. I now observed myself to be less
terrified than I had been in the morning. I stayed till sunset, but humbly
desired his highness to excuse me for not accepting his invitation of lodging
in the palace. My two friends and I lay at a private house in the town
adjoining, which is the capital of this little island; and the next morning we
returned to pay our duty to the governor, as he was pleased to command us.
</p>

<p>
After this manner we continued in the island for ten days, most part of every
day with the governor, and at night in our lodging. I soon grew so familiarized
to the sight of spirits, that after the third or fourth time they gave me no
emotion at all: or, if I had any apprehensions left, my curiosity prevailed
over them. For his highness the governor ordered me &ldquo;to call up whatever
persons I would choose to name, and in whatever numbers, among all the dead
from the beginning of the world to the present time, and command them to answer
any questions I should think fit to ask; with this condition, that my questions
must be confined within the compass of the times they lived in. And one thing I
might depend upon, that they would certainly tell me the truth, for lying was a
talent of no use in the lower world.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
I made my humble acknowledgments to his highness for so great a favour. We were
in a chamber, from whence there was a fair prospect into the park. And because
my first inclination was to be entertained with scenes of pomp and
magnificence, I desired to see Alexander the Great at the head of his army,
just after the battle of Arbela: which, upon a motion of the governor&rsquo;s
finger, immediately appeared in a large field, under the window where we stood.
Alexander was called up into the room: it was with great difficulty that I
understood his Greek, and had but little of my own. He assured me upon his
honour &ldquo;that he was not poisoned, but died of a bad fever by excessive
drinking.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
Next, I saw Hannibal passing the Alps, who told me &ldquo;he had not a drop of
vinegar in his camp.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
I saw Cæsar and Pompey at the head of their troops, just ready to engage. I saw
the former, in his last great triumph. I desired that the senate of Rome might
appear before me, in one large chamber, and an assembly of somewhat a later age
in counterview, in another. The first seemed to be an assembly of heroes and
demigods; the other, a knot of pedlars, pick-pockets, highwaymen, and bullies.
</p>

<p>
The governor, at my request, gave the sign for Cæsar and Brutus to advance
towards us. I was struck with a profound veneration at the sight of Brutus, and
could easily discover the most consummate virtue, the greatest intrepidity and
firmness of mind, the truest love of his country, and general benevolence for
mankind, in every lineament of his countenance. I observed, with much pleasure,
that these two persons were in good intelligence with each other; and Cæsar
freely confessed to me, &ldquo;that the greatest actions of his own life were
not equal, by many degrees, to the glory of taking it away.&rdquo; I had the
honour to have much conversation with Brutus; and was told, &ldquo;that his
ancestor Junius, Socrates, Epaminondas, Cato the younger, Sir Thomas More, and
himself were perpetually together:&rdquo; a sextumvirate, to which all the ages
of the world cannot add a seventh.
</p>

<p>
It would be tedious to trouble the reader with relating what vast numbers of
illustrious persons were called up to gratify that insatiable desire I had to
see the world in every period of antiquity placed before me. I chiefly fed my
eyes with beholding the destroyers of tyrants and usurpers, and the restorers
of liberty to oppressed and injured nations. But it is impossible to express
the satisfaction I received in my own mind, after such a manner as to make it a
suitable entertainment to the reader.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h3>CHAPTER VIII.</h3>

<p class="letter">
A further account of Glubbdubdrib. Ancient and modern history corrected.
</p>

<p>
Having a desire to see those ancients who were most renowned for wit and
learning, I set apart one day on purpose. I proposed that Homer and Aristotle
might appear at the head of all their commentators; but these were so numerous,
that some hundreds were forced to attend in the court, and outward rooms of the
palace. I knew, and could distinguish those two heroes, at first sight, not
only from the crowd, but from each other. Homer was the taller and comelier
person of the two, walked very erect for one of his age, and his eyes were the
most quick and piercing I ever beheld. Aristotle stooped much, and made use of
a staff. His visage was meagre, his hair lank and thin, and his voice hollow. I
soon discovered that both of them were perfect strangers to the rest of the
company, and had never seen or heard of them before; and I had a whisper from a
ghost who shall be nameless, &ldquo;that these commentators always kept in the
most distant quarters from their principals, in the lower world, through a
consciousness of shame and guilt, because they had so horribly misrepresented
the meaning of those authors to posterity.&rdquo; I introduced Didymus and
Eustathius to Homer, and prevailed on him to treat them better than perhaps
they deserved, for he soon found they wanted a genius to enter into the spirit
of a poet. But Aristotle was out of all patience with the account I gave him of
Scotus and Ramus, as I presented them to him; and he asked them, &ldquo;whether
the rest of the tribe were as great dunces as themselves?&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
I then desired the governor to call up Descartes and Gassendi, with whom I
prevailed to explain their systems to Aristotle. This great philosopher freely
acknowledged his own mistakes in natural philosophy, because he proceeded in
many things upon conjecture, as all men must do; and he found that Gassendi,
who had made the doctrine of Epicurus as palatable as he could, and the
<i>vortices</i> of Descartes, were equally to be exploded. He predicted the
same fate to <i>attraction</i>, whereof the present learned are such zealous
asserters. He said, &ldquo;that new systems of nature were but new fashions,
which would vary in every age; and even those, who pretend to demonstrate them
from mathematical principles, would flourish but a short period of time, and be
out of vogue when that was determined.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
I spent five days in conversing with many others of the ancient learned. I saw
most of the first Roman emperors. I prevailed on the governor to call up
Heliogabalus&rsquo;s cooks to dress us a dinner, but they could not show us
much of their skill, for want of materials. A helot of Agesilaus made us a dish
of Spartan broth, but I was not able to get down a second spoonful.
</p>

<p>
The two gentlemen, who conducted me to the island, were pressed by their
private affairs to return in three days, which I employed in seeing some of the
modern dead, who had made the greatest figure, for two or three hundred years
past, in our own and other countries of Europe; and having been always a great
admirer of old illustrious families, I desired the governor would call up a
dozen or two of kings, with their ancestors in order for eight or nine
generations. But my disappointment was grievous and unexpected. For, instead of
a long train with royal diadems, I saw in one family two fiddlers, three spruce
courtiers, and an Italian prelate. In another, a barber, an abbot, and two
cardinals. I have too great a veneration for crowned heads, to dwell any longer
on so nice a subject. But as to counts, marquises, dukes, earls, and the like,
I was not so scrupulous. And I confess, it was not without some pleasure, that
I found myself able to trace the particular features, by which certain families
are distinguished, up to their originals. I could plainly discover whence one
family derives a long chin; why a second has abounded with knaves for two
generations, and fools for two more; why a third happened to be crack-brained,
and a fourth to be sharpers; whence it came, what Polydore Virgil says of a
certain great house, <i>Nec vir fortis</i>, <i>nec femina casta</i>; how
cruelty, falsehood, and cowardice, grew to be characteristics by which certain
families are distinguished as much as by their coats of arms; who first brought
the pox into a noble house, which has lineally descended scrofulous tumours to
their posterity. Neither could I wonder at all this, when I saw such an
interruption of lineages, by pages, lackeys, valets, coachmen, gamesters,
fiddlers, players, captains, and pickpockets.
</p>

<p>
I was chiefly disgusted with modern history. For having strictly examined all
the persons of greatest name in the courts of princes, for a hundred years
past, I found how the world had been misled by prostitute writers, to ascribe
the greatest exploits in war, to cowards; the wisest counsel, to fools;
sincerity, to flatterers; Roman virtue, to betrayers of their country; piety,
to atheists; chastity, to sodomites; truth, to informers: how many innocent and
excellent persons had been condemned to death or banishment by the practising
of great ministers upon the corruption of judges, and the malice of factions:
how many villains had been exalted to the highest places of trust, power,
dignity, and profit: how great a share in the motions and events of courts,
councils, and senates might be challenged by bawds, whores, pimps, parasites,
and buffoons. How low an opinion I had of human wisdom and integrity, when I
was truly informed of the springs and motives of great enterprises and
revolutions in the world, and of the contemptible accidents to which they owed
their success.
</p>

<p>
Here I discovered the roguery and ignorance of those who pretend to write
anecdotes, or secret history; who send so many kings to their graves with a cup
of poison; will repeat the discourse between a prince and chief minister, where
no witness was by; unlock the thoughts and cabinets of ambassadors and
secretaries of state; and have the perpetual misfortune to be mistaken. Here I
discovered the true causes of many great events that have surprised the world;
how a whore can govern the back-stairs, the back-stairs a council, and the
council a senate. A general confessed, in my presence, &ldquo;that he got a
victory purely by the force of cowardice and ill conduct;&rdquo; and an
admiral, &ldquo;that, for want of proper intelligence, he beat the enemy, to
whom he intended to betray the fleet.&rdquo; Three kings protested to me,
&ldquo;that in their whole reigns they never did once prefer any person of
merit, unless by mistake, or treachery of some minister in whom they confided;
neither would they do it if they were to live again:&rdquo; and they showed,
with great strength of reason, &ldquo;that the royal throne could not be
supported without corruption, because that positive, confident, restiff temper,
which virtue infused into a man, was a perpetual clog to public
business.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
I had the curiosity to inquire in a particular manner, by what methods great
numbers had procured to themselves high titles of honour, and prodigious
estates; and I confined my inquiry to a very modern period: however, without
grating upon present times, because I would be sure to give no offence even to
foreigners (for I hope the reader need not be told, that I do not in the least
intend my own country, in what I say upon this occasion,) a great number of
persons concerned were called up; and, upon a very slight examination,
discovered such a scene of infamy, that I cannot reflect upon it without some
seriousness. Perjury, oppression, subornation, fraud, pandarism, and the like
infirmities, were among the most excusable arts they had to mention; and for
these I gave, as it was reasonable, great allowance. But when some confessed
they owed their greatness and wealth to sodomy, or incest; others, to the
prostituting of their own wives and daughters; others, to the betraying of
their country or their prince; some, to poisoning; more to the perverting of
justice, in order to destroy the innocent, I hope I may be pardoned, if these
discoveries inclined me a little to abate of that profound veneration, which I
am naturally apt to pay to persons of high rank, who ought to be treated with
the utmost respect due to their sublime dignity, by us their inferiors.
</p>

<p>
I had often read of some great services done to princes and states, and desired
to see the persons by whom those services were performed. Upon inquiry I was
told, &ldquo;that their names were to be found on no record, except a few of
them, whom history has represented as the vilest of rogues and traitors.&rdquo;
As to the rest, I had never once heard of them. They all appeared with dejected
looks, and in the meanest habit; most of them telling me, &ldquo;they died in
poverty and disgrace, and the rest on a scaffold or a gibbet.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
Among others, there was one person, whose case appeared a little singular. He
had a youth about eighteen years old standing by his side. He told me,
&ldquo;he had for many years been commander of a ship; and in the sea fight at
Actium had the good fortune to break through the enemy&rsquo;s great line of
battle, sink three of their capital ships, and take a fourth, which was the
sole cause of Antony&rsquo;s flight, and of the victory that ensued; that the
youth standing by him, his only son, was killed in the action.&rdquo; He added,
&ldquo;that upon the confidence of some merit, the war being at an end, he went
to Rome, and solicited at the court of Augustus to be preferred to a greater
ship, whose commander had been killed; but, without any regard to his
pretensions, it was given to a boy who had never seen the sea, the son of
Libertina, who waited on one of the emperor&rsquo;s mistresses. Returning back
to his own vessel, he was charged with neglect of duty, and the ship given to a
favourite page of Publicola, the vice-admiral; whereupon he retired to a poor
farm at a great distance from Rome, and there ended his life.&rdquo; I was so
curious to know the truth of this story, that I desired Agrippa might be
called, who was admiral in that fight. He appeared, and confirmed the whole
account: but with much more advantage to the captain, whose modesty had
extenuated or concealed a great part of his merit.
</p>

<p>
I was surprised to find corruption grown so high and so quick in that empire,
by the force of luxury so lately introduced; which made me less wonder at many
parallel cases in other countries, where vices of all kinds have reigned so
much longer, and where the whole praise, as well as pillage, has been engrossed
by the chief commander, who perhaps had the least title to either.
</p>

<p>
As every person called up made exactly the same appearance he had done in the
world, it gave me melancholy reflections to observe how much the race of
humankind was degenerated among us within these hundred years past; how the
pox, under all its consequences and denominations had altered every lineament
of an English countenance; shortened the size of bodies, unbraced the nerves,
relaxed the sinews and muscles, introduced a sallow complexion, and rendered
the flesh loose and rancid.
</p>

<p>
I descended so low, as to desire some English yeoman of the old stamp might be
summoned to appear; once so famous for the simplicity of their manners, diet,
and dress; for justice in their dealings; for their true spirit of liberty; for
their valour, and love of their country. Neither could I be wholly unmoved,
after comparing the living with the dead, when I considered how all these pure
native virtues were prostituted for a piece of money by their grand-children;
who, in selling their votes and managing at elections, have acquired every vice
and corruption that can possibly be learned in a court.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h3>CHAPTER IX.</h3>

<p class="letter">
The author returns to Maldonada. Sails to the kingdom of Luggnagg. The author
confined. He is sent for to court. The manner of his admittance. The
king&rsquo;s great lenity to his subjects.
</p>

<p>
The day of our departure being come, I took leave of his highness, the Governor
of Glubbdubdrib, and returned with my two companions to Maldonada, where, after
a fortnight&rsquo;s waiting, a ship was ready to sail for Luggnagg. The two
gentlemen, and some others, were so generous and kind as to furnish me with
provisions, and see me on board. I was a month in this voyage. We had one
violent storm, and were under a necessity of steering westward to get into the
trade wind, which holds for above sixty leagues. On the 21st of April, 1708, we
sailed into the river of Clumegnig, which is a seaport town, at the south-east
point of Luggnagg. We cast anchor within a league of the town, and made a
signal for a pilot. Two of them came on board in less than half an hour, by
whom we were guided between certain shoals and rocks, which are very dangerous
in the passage, to a large basin, where a fleet may ride in safety within a
cable&rsquo;s length of the town-wall.
</p>

<p>
Some of our sailors, whether out of treachery or inadvertence, had informed the
pilots &ldquo;that I was a stranger, and great traveller;&rdquo; whereof these
gave notice to a custom-house officer, by whom I was examined very strictly
upon my landing. This officer spoke to me in the language of Balnibarbi, which,
by the force of much commerce, is generally understood in that town, especially
by seamen and those employed in the customs. I gave him a short account of some
particulars, and made my story as plausible and consistent as I could; but I
thought it necessary to disguise my country, and call myself a Hollander;
because my intentions were for Japan, and I knew the Dutch were the only
Europeans permitted to enter into that kingdom. I therefore told the officer,
&ldquo;that having been shipwrecked on the coast of Balnibarbi, and cast on a
rock, I was received up into Laputa, or the flying island (of which he had
often heard), and was now endeavouring to get to Japan, whence I might find a
convenience of returning to my own country.&rdquo; The officer said, &ldquo;I
must be confined till he could receive orders from court, for which he would
write immediately, and hoped to receive an answer in a fortnight.&rdquo; I was
carried to a convenient lodging with a sentry placed at the door; however, I
had the liberty of a large garden, and was treated with humanity enough, being
maintained all the time at the king&rsquo;s charge. I was invited by several
persons, chiefly out of curiosity, because it was reported that I came from
countries very remote, of which they had never heard.
</p>

<p>
I hired a young man, who came in the same ship, to be an interpreter; he was a
native of Luggnagg, but had lived some years at Maldonada, and was a perfect
master of both languages. By his assistance, I was able to hold a conversation
with those who came to visit me; but this consisted only of their questions,
and my answers.
</p>

<p>
The despatch came from court about the time we expected. It contained a warrant
for conducting me and my retinue to <i>Traldragdubh</i>, or <i>Trildrogdrib</i>
(for it is pronounced both ways as near as I can remember), by a party of ten
horse. All my retinue was that poor lad for an interpreter, whom I persuaded
into my service, and, at my humble request, we had each of us a mule to ride
on. A messenger was despatched half a day&rsquo;s journey before us, to give
the king notice of my approach, and to desire, &ldquo;that his majesty would
please to appoint a day and hour, when it would by his gracious pleasure that I
might have the honour to lick the dust before his footstool.&rdquo; This is the
court style, and I found it to be more than matter of form: for, upon my
admittance two days after my arrival, I was commanded to crawl upon my belly,
and lick the floor as I advanced; but, on account of my being a stranger, care
was taken to have it made so clean, that the dust was not offensive. However,
this was a peculiar grace, not allowed to any but persons of the highest rank,
when they desire an admittance. Nay, sometimes the floor is strewed with dust
on purpose, when the person to be admitted happens to have powerful enemies at
court; and I have seen a great lord with his mouth so crammed, that when he had
crept to the proper distance from the throne; he was not able to speak a word.
Neither is there any remedy; because it is capital for those, who receive an
audience to spit or wipe their mouths in his majesty&rsquo;s presence. There is
indeed another custom, which I cannot altogether approve of: when the king has
a mind to put any of his nobles to death in a gentle indulgent manner, he
commands the floor to be strewed with a certain brown powder of a deadly
composition, which being licked up, infallibly kills him in twenty-four hours.
But in justice to this prince&rsquo;s great clemency, and the care he has of
his subjects&rsquo; lives (wherein it were much to be wished that the Monarchs
of Europe would imitate him), it must be mentioned for his honour, that strict
orders are given to have the infected parts of the floor well washed after
every such execution, which, if his domestics neglect, they are in danger of
incurring his royal displeasure. I myself heard him give directions, that one
of his pages should be whipped, whose turn it was to give notice about washing
the floor after an execution, but maliciously had omitted it; by which neglect
a young lord of great hopes, coming to an audience, was unfortunately poisoned,
although the king at that time had no design against his life. But this good
prince was so gracious as to forgive the poor page his whipping, upon promise
that he would do so no more, without special orders.
</p>

<p>
To return from this digression. When I had crept within four yards of the
throne, I raised myself gently upon my knees, and then striking my forehead
seven times against the ground, I pronounced the following words, as they had
been taught me the night before, <i>Ickpling gloffthrobb squutserumm blhiop
mlashnalt zwin tnodbalkguffh slhiophad gurdlubh asht</i>. This is the
compliment, established by the laws of the land, for all persons admitted to
the king&rsquo;s presence. It may be rendered into English thus: &ldquo;May
your celestial majesty outlive the sun, eleven moons and a half!&rdquo; To this
the king returned some answer, which, although I could not understand, yet I
replied as I had been directed: <i>Fluft drin yalerick dwuldom prastrad
mirpush</i>, which properly signifies, &ldquo;My tongue is in the mouth of my
friend;&rdquo; and by this expression was meant, that I desired leave to bring
my interpreter; whereupon the young man already mentioned was accordingly
introduced, by whose intervention I answered as many questions as his majesty
could put in above an hour. I spoke in the Balnibarbian tongue, and my
interpreter delivered my meaning in that of Luggnagg.
</p>

<p>
The king was much delighted with my company, and ordered his
<i>bliffmarklub</i>, or high-chamberlain, to appoint a lodging in the court for
me and my interpreter; with a daily allowance for my table, and a large purse
of gold for my common expenses.
</p>

<p>
I staid three months in this country, out of perfect obedience to his majesty;
who was pleased highly to favour me, and made me very honourable offers. But I
thought it more consistent with prudence and justice to pass the remainder of
my days with my wife and family.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h3>CHAPTER X.</h3>

<p class="letter">
The Luggnaggians commended. A particular description of the Struldbrugs, with
many conversations between the author and some eminent persons upon that
subject.
</p>

<p>
The Luggnaggians are a polite and generous people; and although they are not
without some share of that pride which is peculiar to all Eastern countries,
yet they show themselves courteous to strangers, especially such who are
countenanced by the court. I had many acquaintance, and among persons of the
best fashion; and being always attended by my interpreter, the conversation we
had was not disagreeable.
</p>

<p>
One day, in much good company, I was asked by a person of quality,
&ldquo;whether I had seen any of their <i>struldbrugs</i>, or immortals?&rdquo;
I said, &ldquo;I had not;&rdquo; and desired he would explain to me &ldquo;what
he meant by such an appellation, applied to a mortal creature.&rdquo; He told
me &ldquo;that sometimes, though very rarely, a child happened to be born in a
family, with a red circular spot in the forehead, directly over the left
eyebrow, which was an infallible mark that it should never die.&rdquo; The
spot, as he described it, &ldquo;was about the compass of a silver threepence,
but in the course of time grew larger, and changed its colour; for at twelve
years old it became green, so continued till five and twenty, then turned to a
deep blue: at five and forty it grew coal black, and as large as an English
shilling; but never admitted any further alteration.&rdquo; He said,
&ldquo;these births were so rare, that he did not believe there could be above
eleven hundred struldbrugs, of both sexes, in the whole kingdom; of which he
computed about fifty in the metropolis, and, among the rest, a young girl born;
about three years ago: that these productions were not peculiar to any family,
but a mere effect of chance; and the children of the <i>struldbrugs</i>
themselves were equally mortal with the rest of the people.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
I freely own myself to have been struck with inexpressible delight, upon
hearing this account: and the person who gave it me happening to understand the
Balnibarbian language, which I spoke very well, I could not forbear breaking
out into expressions, perhaps a little too extravagant. I cried out, as in a
rapture, &ldquo;Happy nation, where every child hath at least a chance for
being immortal! Happy people, who enjoy so many living examples of ancient
virtue, and have masters ready to instruct them in the wisdom of all former
ages! but happiest, beyond all comparison, are those excellent
<i>struldbrugs</i>, who, being born exempt from that universal calamity of
human nature, have their minds free and disengaged, without the weight and
depression of spirits caused by the continual apprehensions of death!&rdquo; I
discovered my admiration, &ldquo;that I had not observed any of these
illustrious persons at court; the black spot on the forehead being so
remarkable a distinction, that I could not have easily overlooked it: and it
was impossible that his majesty, a most judicious prince, should not provide
himself with a good number of such wise and able counsellors. Yet perhaps the
virtue of those reverend sages was too strict for the corrupt and libertine
manners of a court: and we often find by experience, that young men are too
opinionated and volatile to be guided by the sober dictates of their seniors.
However, since the king was pleased to allow me access to his royal person, I
was resolved, upon the very first occasion, to deliver my opinion to him on
this matter freely and at large, by the help of my interpreter; and whether he
would please to take my advice or not, yet in one thing I was determined, that
his majesty having frequently offered me an establishment in this country, I
would, with great thankfulness, accept the favour, and pass my life here in the
conversation of those superior beings the <i>struldbrugs</i>, if they would
please to admit me.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
The gentleman to whom I addressed my discourse, because (as I have already
observed) he spoke the language of Balnibarbi, said to me, with a sort of a
smile which usually arises from pity to the ignorant, &ldquo;that he was glad
of any occasion to keep me among them, and desired my permission to explain to
the company what I had spoke.&rdquo; He did so, and they talked together for
some time in their own language, whereof I understood not a syllable, neither
could I observe by their countenances, what impression my discourse had made on
them. After a short silence, the same person told me, &ldquo;that his friends
and mine (so he thought fit to express himself) were very much pleased with the
judicious remarks I had made on the great happiness and advantages of immortal
life, and they were desirous to know, in a particular manner, what scheme of
living I should have formed to myself, if it had fallen to my lot to have been
born a <i>struldbrug</i>.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
I answered, &ldquo;it was easy to be eloquent on so copious and delightful a
subject, especially to me, who had been often apt to amuse myself with visions
of what I should do, if I were a king, a general, or a great lord: and upon
this very case, I had frequently run over the whole system how I should employ
myself, and pass the time, if I were sure to live for ever.
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;That, if it had been my good fortune to come into the world a
<i>struldbrug</i>, as soon as I could discover my own happiness, by
understanding the difference between life and death, I would first resolve, by
all arts and methods, whatsoever, to procure myself riches. In the pursuit of
which, by thrift and management, I might reasonably expect, in about two
hundred years, to be the wealthiest man in the kingdom. In the second place, I
would, from my earliest youth, apply myself to the study of arts and sciences,
by which I should arrive in time to excel all others in learning. Lastly, I
would carefully record every action and event of consequence, that happened in
the public, impartially draw the characters of the several successions of
princes and great ministers of state, with my own observations on every point.
I would exactly set down the several changes in customs, language, fashions of
dress, diet, and diversions. By all which acquirements, I should be a living
treasure of knowledge and wisdom, and certainly become the oracle of the
nation.
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;I would never marry after threescore, but live in a hospitable manner,
yet still on the saving side. I would entertain myself in forming and directing
the minds of hopeful young men, by convincing them, from my own remembrance,
experience, and observation, fortified by numerous examples, of the usefulness
of virtue in public and private life. But my choice and constant companions
should be a set of my own immortal brotherhood; among whom, I would elect a
dozen from the most ancient, down to my own contemporaries. Where any of these
wanted fortunes, I would provide them with convenient lodges round my own
estate, and have some of them always at my table; only mingling a few of the
most valuable among you mortals, whom length of time would harden me to lose
with little or no reluctance, and treat your posterity after the same manner;
just as a man diverts himself with the annual succession of pinks and tulips in
his garden, without regretting the loss of those which withered the preceding
year.
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;These <i>struldbrugs</i> and I would mutually communicate our
observations and memorials, through the course of time; remark the several
gradations by which corruption steals into the world, and oppose it in every
step, by giving perpetual warning and instruction to mankind; which, added to
the strong influence of our own example, would probably prevent that continual
degeneracy of human nature so justly complained of in all ages.
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;Add to this, the pleasure of seeing the various revolutions of states
and empires; the changes in the lower and upper world; ancient cities in ruins,
and obscure villages become the seats of kings; famous rivers lessening into
shallow brooks; the ocean leaving one coast dry, and overwhelming another; the
discovery of many countries yet unknown; barbarity overrunning the politest
nations, and the most barbarous become civilized. I should then see the
discovery of the longitude, the perpetual motion, the universal medicine, and
many other great inventions, brought to the utmost perfection.
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;What wonderful discoveries should we make in astronomy, by outliving and
confirming our own predictions; by observing the progress and return of comets,
with the changes of motion in the sun, moon, and stars!&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
I enlarged upon many other topics, which the natural desire of endless life,
and sublunary happiness, could easily furnish me with. When I had ended, and
the sum of my discourse had been interpreted, as before, to the rest of the
company, there was a good deal of talk among them in the language of the
country, not without some laughter at my expense. At last, the same gentleman
who had been my interpreter, said, &ldquo;he was desired by the rest to set me
right in a few mistakes, which I had fallen into through the common imbecility
of human nature, and upon that allowance was less answerable for them. That
this breed of <i>struldbrugs</i> was peculiar to their country, for there were
no such people either in Balnibarbi or Japan, where he had the honour to be
ambassador from his majesty, and found the natives in both those kingdoms very
hard to believe that the fact was possible: and it appeared from my
astonishment when he first mentioned the matter to me, that I received it as a
thing wholly new, and scarcely to be credited. That in the two kingdoms above
mentioned, where, during his residence, he had conversed very much, he observed
long life to be the universal desire and wish of mankind. That whoever had one
foot in the grave was sure to hold back the other as strongly as he could. That
the oldest had still hopes of living one day longer, and looked on death as the
greatest evil, from which nature always prompted him to retreat. Only in this
island of Luggnagg the appetite for living was not so eager, from the continual
example of the <i>struldbrugs</i> before their eyes.
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;That the system of living contrived by me, was unreasonable and unjust;
because it supposed a perpetuity of youth, health, and vigour, which no man
could be so foolish to hope, however extravagant he may be in his wishes. That
the question therefore was not, whether a man would choose to be always in the
prime of youth, attended with prosperity and health; but how he would pass a
perpetual life under all the usual disadvantages which old age brings along
with it. For although few men will avow their desires of being immortal, upon
such hard conditions, yet in the two kingdoms before mentioned, of Balnibarbi
and Japan, he observed that every man desired to put off death some time
longer, let it approach ever so late: and he rarely heard of any man who died
willingly, except he were incited by the extremity of grief or torture. And he
appealed to me, whether in those countries I had travelled, as well as my own,
I had not observed the same general disposition.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
After this preface, he gave me a particular account of the <i>struldbrugs</i>
among them. He said, &ldquo;they commonly acted like mortals till about thirty
years old; after which, by degrees, they grew melancholy and dejected,
increasing in both till they came to fourscore. This he learned from their own
confession: for otherwise, there not being above two or three of that species
born in an age, they were too few to form a general observation by. When they
came to fourscore years, which is reckoned the extremity of living in this
country, they had not only all the follies and infirmities of other old men,
but many more which arose from the dreadful prospect of never dying. They were
not only opinionative, peevish, covetous, morose, vain, talkative, but
incapable of friendship, and dead to all natural affection, which never
descended below their grandchildren. Envy and impotent desires are their
prevailing passions. But those objects against which their envy seems
principally directed, are the vices of the younger sort and the deaths of the
old. By reflecting on the former, they find themselves cut off from all
possibility of pleasure; and whenever they see a funeral, they lament and
repine that others have gone to a harbour of rest to which they themselves
never can hope to arrive. They have no remembrance of anything but what they
learned and observed in their youth and middle-age, and even that is very
imperfect; and for the truth or particulars of any fact, it is safer to depend
on common tradition, than upon their best recollections. The least miserable
among them appear to be those who turn to dotage, and entirely lose their
memories; these meet with more pity and assistance, because they want many bad
qualities which abound in others.
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;If a <i>struldbrug</i> happen to marry one of his own kind, the marriage
is dissolved of course, by the courtesy of the kingdom, as soon as the younger
of the two comes to be fourscore; for the law thinks it a reasonable
indulgence, that those who are condemned, without any fault of their own, to a
perpetual continuance in the world, should not have their misery doubled by the
load of a wife.
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;As soon as they have completed the term of eighty years, they are looked
on as dead in law; their heirs immediately succeed to their estates; only a
small pittance is reserved for their support; and the poor ones are maintained
at the public charge. After that period, they are held incapable of any
employment of trust or profit; they cannot purchase lands, or take leases;
neither are they allowed to be witnesses in any cause, either civil or
criminal, not even for the decision of meers and bounds.
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;At ninety, they lose their teeth and hair; they have at that age no
distinction of taste, but eat and drink whatever they can get, without relish
or appetite. The diseases they were subject to still continue, without
increasing or diminishing. In talking, they forget the common appellation of
things, and the names of persons, even of those who are their nearest friends
and relations. For the same reason, they never can amuse themselves with
reading, because their memory will not serve to carry them from the beginning
of a sentence to the end; and by this defect, they are deprived of the only
entertainment whereof they might otherwise be capable.
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;The language of this country being always upon the flux, the
<i>struldbrugs</i> of one age do not understand those of another; neither are
they able, after two hundred years, to hold any conversation (farther than by a
few general words) with their neighbours the mortals; and thus they lie under
the disadvantage of living like foreigners in their own country.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
This was the account given me of the <i>struldbrugs</i>, as near as I can
remember. I afterwards saw five or six of different ages, the youngest not
above two hundred years old, who were brought to me at several times by some of
my friends; but although they were told, &ldquo;that I was a great traveller,
and had seen all the world,&rdquo; they had not the least curiosity to ask me a
question; only desired &ldquo;I would give them <i>slumskudask</i>,&rdquo; or a
token of remembrance; which is a modest way of begging, to avoid the law, that
strictly forbids it, because they are provided for by the public, although
indeed with a very scanty allowance.
</p>

<p>
They are despised and hated by all sorts of people. When one of them is born,
it is reckoned ominous, and their birth is recorded very particularly so that
you may know their age by consulting the register, which, however, has not been
kept above a thousand years past, or at least has been destroyed by time or
public disturbances. But the usual way of computing how old they are, is by
asking them what kings or great persons they can remember, and then consulting
history; for infallibly the last prince in their mind did not begin his reign
after they were fourscore years old.
</p>

<p>
They were the most mortifying sight I ever beheld; and the women more horrible
than the men. Besides the usual deformities in extreme old age, they acquired
an additional ghastliness, in proportion to their number of years, which is not
to be described; and among half a dozen, I soon distinguished which was the
eldest, although there was not above a century or two between them.
</p>

<p>
The reader will easily believe, that from what I had heard and seen, my keen
appetite for perpetuity of life was much abated. I grew heartily ashamed of the
pleasing visions I had formed; and thought no tyrant could invent a death into
which I would not run with pleasure, from such a life. The king heard of all
that had passed between me and my friends upon this occasion, and rallied me
very pleasantly; wishing I could send a couple of <i>struldbrugs</i> to my own
country, to arm our people against the fear of death; but this, it seems, is
forbidden by the fundamental laws of the kingdom, or else I should have been
well content with the trouble and expense of transporting them.
</p>

<p>
I could not but agree, that the laws of this kingdom relative to the
<i>struldbrugs</i> were founded upon the strongest reasons, and such as any
other country would be under the necessity of enacting, in the like
circumstances. Otherwise, as avarice is the necessary consequence of old age,
those immortals would in time become proprietors of the whole nation, and
engross the civil power, which, for want of abilities to manage, must end in
the ruin of the public.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h3>CHAPTER XI.</h3>

<p class="letter">
The author leaves Luggnagg, and sails to Japan. From thence he returns in a
Dutch ship to Amsterdam, and from Amsterdam to England.
</p>

<p>
I thought this account of the <i>struldbrugs</i> might be some entertainment to
the reader, because it seems to be a little out of the common way; at least I
do not remember to have met the like in any book of travels that has come to my
hands; and if I am deceived, my excuse must be, that it is necessary for
travellers who describe the same country, very often to agree in dwelling on
the same particulars, without deserving the censure of having borrowed or
transcribed from those who wrote before them.
</p>

<p>
There is indeed a perpetual commerce between this kingdom and the great empire
of Japan; and it is very probable, that the Japanese authors may have given
some account of the <i>struldbrugs</i>; but my stay in Japan was so short, and
I was so entirely a stranger to the language, that I was not qualified to make
any inquiries. But I hope the Dutch, upon this notice, will be curious and able
enough to supply my defects.
</p>

<p>
His majesty having often pressed me to accept some employment in his court, and
finding me absolutely determined to return to my native country, was pleased to
give me his license to depart; and honoured me with a letter of recommendation,
under his own hand, to the Emperor of Japan. He likewise presented me with four
hundred and forty-four large pieces of gold (this nation delighting in even
numbers), and a red diamond, which I sold in England for eleven hundred pounds.
</p>

<p>
On the 6th day of May, 1709, I took a solemn leave of his majesty, and all my
friends. This prince was so gracious as to order a guard to conduct me to
Glanguenstald, which is a royal port to the south-west part of the island. In
six days I found a vessel ready to carry me to Japan, and spent fifteen days in
the voyage. We landed at a small port-town called Xamoschi, situated on the
south-east part of Japan; the town lies on the western point, where there is a
narrow strait leading northward into a long arm of the sea, upon the north-west
part of which, Yedo, the metropolis, stands. At landing, I showed the
custom-house officers my letter from the king of Luggnagg to his imperial
majesty. They knew the seal perfectly well; it was as broad as the palm of my
hand. The impression was, <i>A king lifting up a lame beggar from the
earth</i>. The magistrates of the town, hearing of my letter, received me as a
public minister. They provided me with carriages and servants, and bore my
charges to Yedo; where I was admitted to an audience, and delivered my letter,
which was opened with great ceremony, and explained to the Emperor by an
interpreter, who then gave me notice, by his majesty&rsquo;s order, &ldquo;that
I should signify my request, and, whatever it were, it should be granted, for
the sake of his royal brother of Luggnagg.&rdquo; This interpreter was a person
employed to transact affairs with the Hollanders. He soon conjectured, by my
countenance, that I was a European, and therefore repeated his majesty&rsquo;s
commands in Low Dutch, which he spoke perfectly well. I answered, as I had
before determined, &ldquo;that I was a Dutch merchant, shipwrecked in a very
remote country, whence I had travelled by sea and land to Luggnagg, and then
took shipping for Japan; where I knew my countrymen often traded, and with some
of these I hoped to get an opportunity of returning into Europe: I therefore
most humbly entreated his royal favour, to give order that I should be
conducted in safety to Nangasac.&rdquo; To this I added another petition,
&ldquo;that for the sake of my patron the king of Luggnagg, his majesty would
condescend to excuse my performing the ceremony imposed on my countrymen, of
trampling upon the crucifix, because I had been thrown into his kingdom by my
misfortunes, without any intention of trading.&rdquo; When this latter petition
was interpreted to the Emperor, he seemed a little surprised; and said,
&ldquo;he believed I was the first of my countrymen who ever made any scruple
in this point; and that he began to doubt, whether I was a real Hollander, or
not; but rather suspected I must be a Christian. However, for the reasons I had
offered, but chiefly to gratify the king of Luggnagg by an uncommon mark of his
favour, he would comply with the singularity of my humour; but the affair must
be managed with dexterity, and his officers should be commanded to let me pass,
as it were by forgetfulness. For he assured me, that if the secret should be
discovered by my countrymen the Dutch, they would cut my throat in the
voyage.&rdquo; I returned my thanks, by the interpreter, for so unusual a
favour; and some troops being at that time on their march to Nangasac, the
commanding officer had orders to convey me safe thither, with particular
instructions about the business of the crucifix.
</p>

<p>
On the 9th day of June, 1709, I arrived at Nangasac, after a very long and
troublesome journey. I soon fell into the company of some Dutch sailors
belonging to the Amboyna, of Amsterdam, a stout ship of 450 tons. I had lived
long in Holland, pursuing my studies at Leyden, and I spoke Dutch well. The
seamen soon knew from whence I came last: they were curious to inquire into my
voyages and course of life. I made up a story as short and probable as I could,
but concealed the greatest part. I knew many persons in Holland. I was able to
invent names for my parents, whom I pretended to be obscure people in the
province of Gelderland. I would have given the captain (one Theodorus Vangrult)
what he pleased to ask for my voyage to Holland; but understanding I was a
surgeon, he was contented to take half the usual rate, on condition that I
would serve him in the way of my calling. Before we took shipping, I was often
asked by some of the crew, whether I had performed the ceremony above
mentioned. I evaded the question by general answers; &ldquo;that I had
satisfied the Emperor and court in all particulars.&rdquo; However, a malicious
rogue of a skipper went to an officer, and pointing to me, told him, &ldquo;I
had not yet trampled on the crucifix;&rdquo; but the other, who had received
instructions to let me pass, gave the rascal twenty strokes on the shoulders
with a bamboo; after which I was no more troubled with such questions.
</p>

<p>
Nothing happened worth mentioning in this voyage. We sailed with a fair wind to
the Cape of Good Hope, where we staid only to take in fresh water. On the 10th
of April, 1710, we arrived safe at Amsterdam, having lost only three men by
sickness in the voyage, and a fourth, who fell from the foremast into the sea,
not far from the coast of Guinea. From Amsterdam I soon after set sail for
England, in a small vessel belonging to that city.
</p>

<p>
On the 16th of April, 1710, we put in at the Downs. I landed next morning, and
saw once more my native country, after an absence of five years and six months
complete. I went straight to Redriff, where I arrived the same day at two in
the afternoon, and found my wife and family in good health.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h2><a name="part04"></a>PART IV. A VOYAGE TO THE COUNTRY OF THE
HOUYHNHNMS.</h2>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h3>CHAPTER I.</h3>

<p class="letter">
The author sets out as captain of a ship. His men conspire against him, confine
him a long time to his cabin, and set him on shore in an unknown land. He
travels up into the country. The Yahoos, a strange sort of animal, described.
The author meets two Houyhnhnms.
</p>

<p>
I continued at home with my wife and children about five months in a very happy
condition, if I could have learned the lesson of knowing when I was well. I
left my poor wife big with child, and accepted an advantageous offer made me to
be captain of the Adventurer, a stout merchantman of 350 tons: for I understood
navigation well, and being grown weary of a surgeon&rsquo;s employment at sea,
which, however, I could exercise upon occasion, I took a skilful young man of
that calling, one Robert Purefoy, into my ship. We set sail from Portsmouth
upon the 7th day of August, 1710; on the 14th we met with Captain Pocock, of
Bristol, at Teneriffe, who was going to the bay of Campechy to cut logwood. On
the 16th, he was parted from us by a storm; I heard since my return, that his
ship foundered, and none escaped but one cabin boy. He was an honest man, and a
good sailor, but a little too positive in his own opinions, which was the cause
of his destruction, as it has been with several others; for if he had followed
my advice, he might have been safe at home with his family at this time, as
well as myself.
</p>

<p>
I had several men who died in my ship of calentures, so that I was forced to
get recruits out of Barbadoes and the Leeward Islands, where I touched, by the
direction of the merchants who employed me; which I had soon too much cause to
repent: for I found afterwards, that most of them had been buccaneers. I had
fifty hands on board; and my orders were, that I should trade with the Indians
in the South-Sea, and make what discoveries I could. These rogues, whom I had
picked up, debauched my other men, and they all formed a conspiracy to seize
the ship, and secure me; which they did one morning, rushing into my cabin, and
binding me hand and foot, threatening to throw me overboard, if I offered to
stir. I told them, &ldquo;I was their prisoner, and would submit.&rdquo; This
they made me swear to do, and then they unbound me, only fastening one of my
legs with a chain, near my bed, and placed a sentry at my door with his piece
charged, who was commanded to shoot me dead if I attempted my liberty. They
sent me down victuals and drink, and took the government of the ship to
themselves. Their design was to turn pirates, and plunder the Spaniards, which
they could not do till they got more men. But first they resolved to sell the
goods in the ship, and then go to Madagascar for recruits, several among them
having died since my confinement. They sailed many weeks, and traded with the
Indians; but I knew not what course they took, being kept a close prisoner in
my cabin, and expecting nothing less than to be murdered, as they often
threatened me.
</p>

<p>
Upon the 9th day of May, 1711, one James Welch came down to my cabin, and said,
&ldquo;he had orders from the captain to set me ashore.&rdquo; I expostulated
with him, but in vain; neither would he so much as tell me who their new
captain was. They forced me into the long-boat, letting me put on my best suit
of clothes, which were as good as new, and take a small bundle of linen, but no
arms, except my hanger; and they were so civil as not to search my pockets,
into which I conveyed what money I had, with some other little necessaries.
They rowed about a league, and then set me down on a strand. I desired them to
tell me what country it was. They all swore, &ldquo;they knew no more than
myself;&rdquo; but said, &ldquo;that the captain&rdquo; (as they called him)
&ldquo;was resolved, after they had sold the lading, to get rid of me in the
first place where they could discover land.&rdquo; They pushed off immediately,
advising me to make haste for fear of being overtaken by the tide, and so bade
me farewell.
</p>

<p>
In this desolate condition I advanced forward, and soon got upon firm ground,
where I sat down on a bank to rest myself, and consider what I had best do.
When I was a little refreshed, I went up into the country, resolving to deliver
myself to the first savages I should meet, and purchase my life from them by
some bracelets, glass rings, and other toys, which sailors usually provide
themselves with in those voyages, and whereof I had some about me. The land was
divided by long rows of trees, not regularly planted, but naturally growing;
there was great plenty of grass, and several fields of oats. I walked very
circumspectly, for fear of being surprised, or suddenly shot with an arrow from
behind, or on either side. I fell into a beaten road, where I saw many tracts
of human feet, and some of cows, but most of horses. At last I beheld several
animals in a field, and one or two of the same kind sitting in trees. Their
shape was very singular and deformed, which a little discomposed me, so that I
lay down behind a thicket to observe them better. Some of them coming forward
near the place where I lay, gave me an opportunity of distinctly marking their
form. Their heads and breasts were covered with a thick hair, some frizzled,
and others lank; they had beards like goats, and a long ridge of hair down
their backs, and the fore parts of their legs and feet; but the rest of their
bodies was bare, so that I might see their skins, which were of a brown buff
colour. They had no tails, nor any hair at all on their buttocks, except about
the anus, which, I presume, nature had placed there to defend them as they sat
on the ground, for this posture they used, as well as lying down, and often
stood on their hind feet. They climbed high trees as nimbly as a squirrel, for
they had strong extended claws before and behind, terminating in sharp points,
and hooked. They would often spring, and bound, and leap, with prodigious
agility. The females were not so large as the males; they had long lank hair on
their heads, but none on their faces, nor any thing more than a sort of down on
the rest of their bodies, except about the anus and pudenda. The dugs hung
between their forefeet, and often reached almost to the ground as they walked.
The hair of both sexes was of several colours, brown, red, black, and yellow.
Upon the whole, I never beheld, in all my travels, so disagreeable an animal,
or one against which I naturally conceived so strong an antipathy. So that,
thinking I had seen enough, full of contempt and aversion, I got up, and
pursued the beaten road, hoping it might direct me to the cabin of some Indian.
I had not got far, when I met one of these creatures full in my way, and coming
up directly to me. The ugly monster, when he saw me, distorted several ways,
every feature of his visage, and stared, as at an object he had never seen
before; then approaching nearer, lifted up his fore-paw, whether out of
curiosity or mischief I could not tell; but I drew my hanger, and gave him a
good blow with the flat side of it, for I durst not strike with the edge,
fearing the inhabitants might be provoked against me, if they should come to
know that I had killed or maimed any of their cattle. When the beast felt the
smart, he drew back, and roared so loud, that a herd of at least forty came
flocking about me from the next field, howling and making odious faces; but I
ran to the body of a tree, and leaning my back against it, kept them off by
waving my hanger. Several of this cursed brood, getting hold of the branches
behind, leaped up into the tree, whence they began to discharge their
excrements on my head; however, I escaped pretty well by sticking close to the
stem of the tree, but was almost stifled with the filth, which fell about me on
every side.
</p>

<p>
In the midst of this distress, I observed them all to run away on a sudden as
fast as they could; at which I ventured to leave the tree and pursue the road,
wondering what it was that could put them into this fright. But looking on my
left hand, I saw a horse walking softly in the field; which my persecutors
having sooner discovered, was the cause of their flight. The horse started a
little, when he came near me, but soon recovering himself, looked full in my
face with manifest tokens of wonder; he viewed my hands and feet, walking round
me several times. I would have pursued my journey, but he placed himself
directly in the way, yet looking with a very mild aspect, never offering the
least violence. We stood gazing at each other for some time; at last I took the
boldness to reach my hand towards his neck with a design to stroke it, using
the common style and whistle of jockeys, when they are going to handle a
strange horse. But this animal seemed to receive my civilities with disdain,
shook his head, and bent his brows, softly raising up his right fore-foot to
remove my hand. Then he neighed three or four times, but in so different a
cadence, that I almost began to think he was speaking to himself, in some
language of his own.
</p>

<p>
While he and I were thus employed, another horse came up; who applying himself
to the first in a very formal manner, they gently struck each other&rsquo;s
right hoof before, neighing several times by turns, and varying the sound,
which seemed to be almost articulate. They went some paces off, as if it were
to confer together, walking side by side, backward and forward, like persons
deliberating upon some affair of weight, but often turning their eyes towards
me, as it were to watch that I might not escape. I was amazed to see such
actions and behaviour in brute beasts; and concluded with myself, that if the
inhabitants of this country were endued with a proportionable degree of reason,
they must needs be the wisest people upon earth. This thought gave me so much
comfort, that I resolved to go forward, until I could discover some house or
village, or meet with any of the natives, leaving the two horses to discourse
together as they pleased. But the first, who was a dapple gray, observing me to
steal off, neighed after me in so expressive a tone, that I fancied myself to
understand what he meant; whereupon I turned back, and came near to him to
expect his farther commands: but concealing my fear as much as I could, for I
began to be in some pain how this adventure might terminate; and the reader
will easily believe I did not much like my present situation.
</p>

<p>
The two horses came up close to me, looking with great earnestness upon my face
and hands. The gray steed rubbed my hat all round with his right fore-hoof, and
discomposed it so much that I was forced to adjust it better by taking it off
and settling it again; whereat, both he and his companion (who was a brown bay)
appeared to be much surprised: the latter felt the lappet of my coat, and
finding it to hang loose about me, they both looked with new signs of wonder.
He stroked my right hand, seeming to admire the softness and colour; but he
squeezed it so hard between his hoof and his pastern, that I was forced to
roar; after which they both touched me with all possible tenderness. They were
under great perplexity about my shoes and stockings, which they felt very
often, neighing to each other, and using various gestures, not unlike those of
a philosopher, when he would attempt to solve some new and difficult
phenomenon.
</p>

<p>
Upon the whole, the behaviour of these animals was so orderly and rational, so
acute and judicious, that I at last concluded they must needs be magicians, who
had thus metamorphosed themselves upon some design, and seeing a stranger in
the way, resolved to divert themselves with him; or, perhaps, were really
amazed at the sight of a man so very different in habit, feature, and
complexion, from those who might probably live in so remote a climate. Upon the
strength of this reasoning, I ventured to address them in the following manner:
&ldquo;Gentlemen, if you be conjurers, as I have good cause to believe, you can
understand my language; therefore I make bold to let your worships know that I
am a poor distressed Englishman, driven by his misfortunes upon your coast; and
I entreat one of you to let me ride upon his back, as if he were a real horse,
to some house or village where I can be relieved. In return of which favour, I
will make you a present of this knife and bracelet,&rdquo; taking them out of
my pocket. The two creatures stood silent while I spoke, seeming to listen with
great attention, and when I had ended, they neighed frequently towards each
other, as if they were engaged in serious conversation. I plainly observed that
their language expressed the passions very well, and the words might, with
little pains, be resolved into an alphabet more easily than the Chinese.
</p>

<p>
I could frequently distinguish the word <i>Yahoo</i>, which was repeated by
each of them several times: and although it was impossible for me to conjecture
what it meant, yet while the two horses were busy in conversation, I
endeavoured to practise this word upon my tongue; and as soon as they were
silent, I boldly pronounced <i>Yahoo</i> in a loud voice, imitating at the same
time, as near as I could, the neighing of a horse; at which they were both
visibly surprised; and the gray repeated the same word twice, as if he meant to
teach me the right accent; wherein I spoke after him as well as I could, and
found myself perceivably to improve every time, though very far from any degree
of perfection. Then the bay tried me with a second word, much harder to be
pronounced; but reducing it to the English orthography, may be spelt thus,
<i>Houyhnhnm</i>. I did not succeed in this so well as in the former; but after
two or three farther trials, I had better fortune; and they both appeared
amazed at my capacity.
</p>

<p>
After some further discourse, which I then conjectured might relate to me, the
two friends took their leaves, with the same compliment of striking each
other&rsquo;s hoof; and the gray made me signs that I should walk before him;
wherein I thought it prudent to comply, till I could find a better director.
When I offered to slacken my pace, he would cry <i>hhuun hhuun</i>: I guessed
his meaning, and gave him to understand, as well as I could, &ldquo;that I was
weary, and not able to walk faster;&rdquo; upon which he would stand a while to
let me rest.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h3>CHAPTER II.</h3>

<p class="letter">
The author conducted by a Houyhnhnm to his house. The house described. The
author&rsquo;s reception. The food of the Houyhnhnms. The author in distress
for want of meat, is at last relieved. His manner of feeding in this country.
</p>

<p>
Having travelled about three miles, we came to a long kind of building, made of
timber stuck in the ground, and wattled across; the roof was low and covered
with straw. I now began to be a little comforted; and took out some toys, which
travellers usually carry for presents to the savage Indians of America, and
other parts, in hopes the people of the house would be thereby encouraged to
receive me kindly. The horse made me a sign to go in first; it was a large room
with a smooth clay floor, and a rack and manger, extending the whole length on
one side. There were three nags and two mares, not eating, but some of them
sitting down upon their hams, which I very much wondered at; but wondered more
to see the rest employed in domestic business; these seemed but ordinary
cattle. However, this confirmed my first opinion, that a people who could so
far civilize brute animals, must needs excel in wisdom all the nations of the
world. The gray came in just after, and thereby prevented any ill treatment
which the others might have given me. He neighed to them several times in a
style of authority, and received answers.
</p>

<p>
Beyond this room there were three others, reaching the length of the house, to
which you passed through three doors, opposite to each other, in the manner of
a vista. We went through the second room towards the third. Here the gray
walked in first, beckoning me to attend: I waited in the second room, and got
ready my presents for the master and mistress of the house; they were two
knives, three bracelets of false pearls, a small looking-glass, and a bead
necklace. The horse neighed three or four times, and I waited to hear some
answers in a human voice, but I heard no other returns than in the same
dialect, only one or two a little shriller than his. I began to think that this
house must belong to some person of great note among them, because there
appeared so much ceremony before I could gain admittance. But, that a man of
quality should be served all by horses, was beyond my comprehension. I feared
my brain was disturbed by my sufferings and misfortunes. I roused myself, and
looked about me in the room where I was left alone: this was furnished like the
first, only after a more elegant manner. I rubbed my eyes often, but the same
objects still occurred. I pinched my arms and sides to awake myself, hoping I
might be in a dream. I then absolutely concluded, that all these appearances
could be nothing else but necromancy and magic. But I had no time to pursue
these reflections; for the gray horse came to the door, and made me a sign to
follow him into the third room where I saw a very comely mare, together with a
colt and foal, sitting on their haunches upon mats of straw, not unartfully
made, and perfectly neat and clean.
</p>

<p>
The mare soon after my entrance rose from her mat, and coming up close, after
having nicely observed my hands and face, gave me a most contemptuous look; and
turning to the horse, I heard the word <i>Yahoo</i> often repeated betwixt
them; the meaning of which word I could not then comprehend, although it was
the first I had learned to pronounce. But I was soon better informed, to my
everlasting mortification; for the horse, beckoning to me with his head, and
repeating the <i>hhuun</i>, <i>hhuun</i>, as he did upon the road, which I
understood was to attend him, led me out into a kind of court, where was
another building, at some distance from the house. Here we entered, and I saw
three of those detestable creatures, which I first met after my landing,
feeding upon roots, and the flesh of some animals, which I afterwards found to
be that of asses and dogs, and now and then a cow, dead by accident or disease.
They were all tied by the neck with strong withes, fastened to a beam; they
held their food between the claws of their forefeet, and tore it with their
teeth.
</p>

<p>
The master horse ordered a sorrel nag, one of his servants, to untie the
largest of these animals, and take him into the yard. The beast and I were
brought close together, and by our countenances diligently compared both by
master and servant, who thereupon repeated several times the word <i>Yahoo</i>.
My horror and astonishment are not to be described, when I observed in this
abominable animal, a perfect human figure: the face of it indeed was flat and
broad, the nose depressed, the lips large, and the mouth wide; but these
differences are common to all savage nations, where the lineaments of the
countenance are distorted, by the natives suffering their infants to lie
grovelling on the earth, or by carrying them on their backs, nuzzling with
their face against the mothers&rsquo; shoulders. The forefeet of the
<i>Yahoo</i> differed from my hands in nothing else but the length of the
nails, the coarseness and brownness of the palms, and the hairiness on the
backs. There was the same resemblance between our feet, with the same
differences; which I knew very well, though the horses did not, because of my
shoes and stockings; the same in every part of our bodies except as to
hairiness and colour, which I have already described.
</p>

<p>
The great difficulty that seemed to stick with the two horses, was to see the
rest of my body so very different from that of a <i>Yahoo</i>, for which I was
obliged to my clothes, whereof they had no conception. The sorrel nag offered
me a root, which he held (after their manner, as we shall describe in its
proper place) between his hoof and pastern; I took it in my hand, and, having
smelt it, returned it to him again as civilly as I could. He brought out of the
<i>Yahoos</i>&rsquo; kennel a piece of ass&rsquo;s flesh; but it smelt so
offensively that I turned from it with loathing: he then threw it to the
<i>Yahoo</i>, by whom it was greedily devoured. He afterwards showed me a wisp
of hay, and a fetlock full of oats; but I shook my head, to signify that
neither of these were food for me. And indeed I now apprehended that I must
absolutely starve, if I did not get to some of my own species; for as to those
filthy <i>Yahoos</i>, although there were few greater lovers of mankind at that
time than myself, yet I confess I never saw any sensitive being so detestable
on all accounts; and the more I came near them the more hateful they grew,
while I stayed in that country. This the master horse observed by my behaviour,
and therefore sent the <i>Yahoo</i> back to his kennel. He then put his
fore-hoof to his mouth, at which I was much surprised, although he did it with
ease, and with a motion that appeared perfectly natural, and made other signs,
to know what I would eat; but I could not return him such an answer as he was
able to apprehend; and if he had understood me, I did not see how it was
possible to contrive any way for finding myself nourishment. While we were thus
engaged, I observed a cow passing by, whereupon I pointed to her, and expressed
a desire to go and milk her. This had its effect; for he led me back into the
house, and ordered a mare-servant to open a room, where a good store of milk
lay in earthen and wooden vessels, after a very orderly and cleanly manner. She
gave me a large bowlful, of which I drank very heartily, and found myself well
refreshed.
</p>

<p>
About noon, I saw coming towards the house a kind of vehicle drawn like a
sledge by four <i>Yahoos</i>. There was in it an old steed, who seemed to be of
quality; he alighted with his hind-feet forward, having by accident got a hurt
in his left fore-foot. He came to dine with our horse, who received him with
great civility. They dined in the best room, and had oats boiled in milk for
the second course, which the old horse ate warm, but the rest cold. Their
mangers were placed circular in the middle of the room, and divided into
several partitions, round which they sat on their haunches, upon bosses of
straw. In the middle was a large rack, with angles answering to every partition
of the manger; so that each horse and mare ate their own hay, and their own
mash of oats and milk, with much decency and regularity. The behaviour of the
young colt and foal appeared very modest, and that of the master and mistress
extremely cheerful and complaisant to their guest. The gray ordered me to stand
by him; and much discourse passed between him and his friend concerning me, as
I found by the stranger&rsquo;s often looking on me, and the frequent
repetition of the word <i>Yahoo</i>.
</p>

<p>
I happened to wear my gloves, which the master gray observing, seemed
perplexed, discovering signs of wonder what I had done to my forefeet. He put
his hoof three or four times to them, as if he would signify, that I should
reduce them to their former shape, which I presently did, pulling off both my
gloves, and putting them into my pocket. This occasioned farther talk; and I
saw the company was pleased with my behaviour, whereof I soon found the good
effects. I was ordered to speak the few words I understood; and while they were
at dinner, the master taught me the names for oats, milk, fire, water, and some
others, which I could readily pronounce after him, having from my youth a great
facility in learning languages.
</p>

<p>
When dinner was done, the master horse took me aside, and by signs and words
made me understand the concern he was in that I had nothing to eat. Oats in
their tongue are called <i>hlunnh</i>. This word I pronounced two or three
times; for although I had refused them at first, yet, upon second thoughts, I
considered that I could contrive to make of them a kind of bread, which might
be sufficient, with milk, to keep me alive, till I could make my escape to some
other country, and to creatures of my own species. The horse immediately
ordered a white mare servant of his family to bring me a good quantity of oats
in a sort of wooden tray. These I heated before the fire, as well as I could,
and rubbed them till the husks came off, which I made a shift to winnow from
the grain. I ground and beat them between two stones; then took water, and made
them into a paste or cake, which I toasted at the fire and eat warm with milk.
It was at first a very insipid diet, though common enough in many parts of
Europe, but grew tolerable by time; and having been often reduced to hard fare
in my life, this was not the first experiment I had made how easily nature is
satisfied. And I cannot but observe, that I never had one hour&rsquo;s sickness
while I stayed in this island. It is true, I sometimes made a shift to catch a
rabbit, or bird, by springs made of <i>Yahoo&rsquo;s</i> hairs; and I often
gathered wholesome herbs, which I boiled, and ate as salads with my bread; and
now and then, for a rarity, I made a little butter, and drank the whey. I was
at first at a great loss for salt, but custom soon reconciled me to the want of
it; and I am confident that the frequent use of salt among us is an effect of
luxury, and was first introduced only as a provocative to drink, except where
it is necessary for preserving flesh in long voyages, or in places remote from
great markets; for we observe no animal to be fond of it but man, and as to
myself, when I left this country, it was a great while before I could endure
the taste of it in anything that I ate.
</p>

<p>
This is enough to say upon the subject of my diet, wherewith other travellers
fill their books, as if the readers were personally concerned whether we fare
well or ill. However, it was necessary to mention this matter, lest the world
should think it impossible that I could find sustenance for three years in such
a country, and among such inhabitants.
</p>

<p>
When it grew towards evening, the master horse ordered a place for me to lodge
in; it was but six yards from the house and separated from the stable of the
<i>Yahoos</i>. Here I got some straw, and covering myself with my own clothes,
slept very sound. But I was in a short time better accommodated, as the reader
shall know hereafter, when I come to treat more particularly about my way of
living.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h3>CHAPTER III.</h3>

<p class="letter">
The author studies to learn the language. The Houyhnhnm, his master, assists in
teaching him. The language described. Several Houyhnhnms of quality come out of
curiosity to see the author. He gives his master a short account of his voyage.
</p>

<p>
My principal endeavour was to learn the language, which my master (for so I
shall henceforth call him), and his children, and every servant of his house,
were desirous to teach me; for they looked upon it as a prodigy, that a brute
animal should discover such marks of a rational creature. I pointed to every
thing, and inquired the name of it, which I wrote down in my journal-book when
I was alone, and corrected my bad accent by desiring those of the family to
pronounce it often. In this employment, a sorrel nag, one of the
under-servants, was very ready to assist me.
</p>

<p>
In speaking, they pronounced through the nose and throat, and their language
approaches nearest to the High-Dutch, or German, of any I know in Europe; but
is much more graceful and significant. The emperor Charles V. made almost the
same observation, when he said &ldquo;that if he were to speak to his horse, it
should be in High-Dutch.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
The curiosity and impatience of my master were so great, that he spent many
hours of his leisure to instruct me. He was convinced (as he afterwards told
me) that I must be a <i>Yahoo</i>; but my teachableness, civility, and
cleanliness, astonished him; which were qualities altogether opposite to those
animals. He was most perplexed about my clothes, reasoning sometimes with
himself, whether they were a part of my body: for I never pulled them off till
the family were asleep, and got them on before they waked in the morning. My
master was eager to learn &ldquo;whence I came; how I acquired those
appearances of reason, which I discovered in all my actions; and to know my
story from my own mouth, which he hoped he should soon do by the great
proficiency I made in learning and pronouncing their words and
sentences.&rdquo; To help my memory, I formed all I learned into the English
alphabet, and writ the words down, with the translations. This last, after some
time, I ventured to do in my master&rsquo;s presence. It cost me much trouble
to explain to him what I was doing; for the inhabitants have not the least idea
of books or literature.
</p>

<p>
In about ten weeks time, I was able to understand most of his questions; and in
three months, could give him some tolerable answers. He was extremely curious
to know &ldquo;from what part of the country I came, and how I was taught to
imitate a rational creature; because the <i>Yahoos</i> (whom he saw I exactly
resembled in my head, hands, and face, that were only visible), with some
appearance of cunning, and the strongest disposition to mischief, were observed
to be the most unteachable of all brutes.&rdquo; I answered, &ldquo;that I came
over the sea, from a far place, with many others of my own kind, in a great
hollow vessel made of the bodies of trees: that my companions forced me to land
on this coast, and then left me to shift for myself.&rdquo; It was with some
difficulty, and by the help of many signs, that I brought him to understand me.
He replied, &ldquo;that I must needs be mistaken, or that I said the thing
which was not;&rdquo; for they have no word in their language to express lying
or falsehood. &ldquo;He knew it was impossible that there could be a country
beyond the sea, or that a parcel of brutes could move a wooden vessel whither
they pleased upon water. He was sure no <i>Houyhnhnm</i> alive could make such
a vessel, nor would trust <i>Yahoos</i> to manage it.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
The word <i>Houyhnhnm</i>, in their tongue, signifies a <i>horse</i>, and, in
its etymology, the <i>perfection of nature</i>. I told my master, &ldquo;that I
was at a loss for expression, but would improve as fast as I could; and hoped,
in a short time, I should be able to tell him wonders.&rdquo; He was pleased to
direct his own mare, his colt, and foal, and the servants of the family, to
take all opportunities of instructing me; and every day, for two or three
hours, he was at the same pains himself. Several horses and mares of quality in
the neighbourhood came often to our house, upon the report spread of &ldquo;a
wonderful <i>Yahoo</i>, that could speak like a <i>Houyhnhnm</i>, and seemed,
in his words and actions, to discover some glimmerings of reason.&rdquo; These
delighted to converse with me: they put many questions, and received such
answers as I was able to return. By all these advantages I made so great a
progress, that, in five months from my arrival I understood whatever was
spoken, and could express myself tolerably well.
</p>

<p>
The <i>Houyhnhnms</i>, who came to visit my master out of a design of seeing
and talking with me, could hardly believe me to be a right <i>Yahoo</i>,
because my body had a different covering from others of my kind. They were
astonished to observe me without the usual hair or skin, except on my head,
face, and hands; but I discovered that secret to my master upon an accident
which happened about a fortnight before.
</p>

<p>
I have already told the reader, that every night, when the family were gone to
bed, it was my custom to strip, and cover myself with my clothes. It happened,
one morning early, that my master sent for me by the sorrel nag, who was his
valet. When he came I was fast asleep, my clothes fallen off on one side, and
my shirt above my waist. I awaked at the noise he made, and observed him to
deliver his message in some disorder; after which he went to my master, and in
a great fright gave him a very confused account of what he had seen. This I
presently discovered, for, going as soon as I was dressed to pay my attendance
upon his honour, he asked me &ldquo;the meaning of what his servant had
reported, that I was not the same thing when I slept, as I appeared to be at
other times; that his valet assured him, some part of me was white, some
yellow, at least not so white, and some brown.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
I had hitherto concealed the secret of my dress, in order to distinguish
myself, as much as possible, from that cursed race of <i>Yahoos</i>; but now I
found it in vain to do so any longer. Besides, I considered that my clothes and
shoes would soon wear out, which already were in a declining condition, and
must be supplied by some contrivance from the hides of <i>Yahoos</i>, or other
brutes; whereby the whole secret would be known. I therefore told my master,
&ldquo;that in the country whence I came, those of my kind always covered their
bodies with the hairs of certain animals prepared by art, as well for decency
as to avoid the inclemencies of air, both hot and cold; of which, as to my own
person, I would give him immediate conviction, if he pleased to command me:
only desiring his excuse, if I did not expose those parts that nature taught us
to conceal.&rdquo; He said, &ldquo;my discourse was all very strange, but
especially the last part; for he could not understand, why nature should teach
us to conceal what nature had given; that neither himself nor family were
ashamed of any parts of their bodies; but, however, I might do as I
pleased.&rdquo; Whereupon I first unbuttoned my coat, and pulled it off. I did
the same with my waistcoat. I drew off my shoes, stockings, and breeches. I let
my shirt down to my waist, and drew up the bottom; fastening it like a girdle
about my middle, to hide my nakedness.
</p>

<p>
My master observed the whole performance with great signs of curiosity and
admiration. He took up all my clothes in his pastern, one piece after another,
and examined them diligently; he then stroked my body very gently, and looked
round me several times; after which, he said, it was plain I must be a perfect
<i>Yahoo</i>; but that I differed very much from the rest of my species in the
softness, whiteness, and smoothness of my skin; my want of hair in several
parts of my body; the shape and shortness of my claws behind and before; and my
affectation of walking continually on my two hinder feet. He desired to see no
more; and gave me leave to put on my clothes again, for I was shuddering with
cold.
</p>

<p>
I expressed my uneasiness at his giving me so often the appellation of
<i>Yahoo</i>, an odious animal, for which I had so utter a hatred and contempt:
I begged he would forbear applying that word to me, and make the same order in
his family and among his friends whom he suffered to see me. I requested
likewise, &ldquo;that the secret of my having a false covering to my body,
might be known to none but himself, at least as long as my present clothing
should last; for as to what the sorrel nag, his valet, had observed, his honour
might command him to conceal it.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
All this my master very graciously consented to; and thus the secret was kept
till my clothes began to wear out, which I was forced to supply by several
contrivances that shall hereafter be mentioned. In the meantime, he desired
&ldquo;I would go on with my utmost diligence to learn their language, because
he was more astonished at my capacity for speech and reason, than at the figure
of my body, whether it were covered or not;&rdquo; adding, &ldquo;that he
waited with some impatience to hear the wonders which I promised to tell
him.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
From thenceforward he doubled the pains he had been at to instruct me: he
brought me into all company, and made them treat me with civility;
&ldquo;because,&rdquo; as he told them, privately, &ldquo;this would put me
into good humour, and make me more diverting.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
Every day, when I waited on him, beside the trouble he was at in teaching, he
would ask me several questions concerning myself, which I answered as well as I
could, and by these means he had already received some general ideas, though
very imperfect. It would be tedious to relate the several steps by which I
advanced to a more regular conversation; but the first account I gave of myself
in any order and length was to this purpose:
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;That I came from a very far country, as I already had attempted to tell
him, with about fifty more of my own species; that we travelled upon the seas
in a great hollow vessel made of wood, and larger than his honour&rsquo;s
house. I described the ship to him in the best terms I could, and explained, by
the help of my handkerchief displayed, how it was driven forward by the wind.
That upon a quarrel among us, I was set on shore on this coast, where I walked
forward, without knowing whither, till he delivered me from the persecution of
those execrable <i>Yahoos</i>.&rdquo; He asked me, &ldquo;who made the ship,
and how it was possible that the <i>Houyhnhnms</i> of my country would leave it
to the management of brutes?&rdquo; My answer was, &ldquo;that I durst proceed
no further in my relation, unless he would give me his word and honour that he
would not be offended, and then I would tell him the wonders I had so often
promised.&rdquo; He agreed; and I went on by assuring him, that the ship was
made by creatures like myself; who, in all the countries I had travelled, as
well as in my own, were the only governing rational animals; and that upon my
arrival hither, I was as much astonished to see the <i>Houyhnhnms</i> act like
rational beings, as he, or his friends, could be, in finding some marks of
reason in a creature he was pleased to call a <i>Yahoo</i>; to which I owned my
resemblance in every part, but could not account for their degenerate and
brutal nature. I said farther, &ldquo;that if good fortune ever restored me to
my native country, to relate my travels hither, as I resolved to do, everybody
would believe, that I said the thing that was not, that I invented the story
out of my own head; and (with all possible respect to himself, his family, and
friends, and under his promise of not being offended) our countrymen would
hardly think it probable that a <i>Houyhnhnm</i> should be the presiding
creature of a nation, and a <i>Yahoo</i> the brute.&rdquo;
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h3>CHAPTER IV.</h3>

<p class="letter">
The Houyhnhnms&rsquo; notion of truth and falsehood. The author&rsquo;s
discourse disapproved by his master. The author gives a more particular account
of himself, and the accidents of his voyage.
</p>

<p>
My master heard me with great appearances of uneasiness in his countenance;
because <i>doubting</i>, or not believing, are so little known in this country,
that the inhabitants cannot tell how to behave themselves under such
circumstances. And I remember, in frequent discourses with my master concerning
the nature of manhood in other parts of the world, having occasion to talk of
<i>lying</i> and <i>false representation</i>, it was with much difficulty that
he comprehended what I meant, although he had otherwise a most acute judgment.
For he argued thus: &ldquo;that the use of speech was to make us understand one
another, and to receive information of facts; now, if any one <i>said the thing
which was not</i>, these ends were defeated, because I cannot properly be said
to understand him; and I am so far from receiving information, that he leaves
me worse than in ignorance; for I am led to believe a thing black, when it is
white, and short, when it is long.&rdquo; And these were all the notions he had
concerning that faculty of <i>lying</i>, so perfectly well understood, and so
universally practised, among human creatures.
</p>

<p>
To return from this digression. When I asserted that the <i>Yahoos</i> were the
only governing animals in my country, which my master said was altogether past
his conception, he desired to know, &ldquo;whether we had <i>Houyhnhnms</i>
among us, and what was their employment?&rdquo; I told him, &ldquo;we had great
numbers; that in summer they grazed in the fields, and in winter were kept in
houses with hay and oats, where <i>Yahoo</i> servants were employed to rub
their skins smooth, comb their manes, pick their feet, serve them with food,
and make their beds.&rdquo; &ldquo;I understand you well,&rdquo; said my
master: &ldquo;it is now very plain, from all you have spoken, that whatever
share of reason the <i>Yahoos</i> pretend to, the <i>Houyhnhnms</i> are your
masters; I heartily wish our <i>Yahoos</i> would be so tractable.&rdquo; I
begged &ldquo;his honour would please to excuse me from proceeding any further,
because I was very certain that the account he expected from me would be highly
displeasing.&rdquo; But he insisted in commanding me to let him know the best
and the worst. I told him &ldquo;he should be obeyed.&rdquo; I owned
&ldquo;that the <i>Houyhnhnms</i> among us, whom we called horses, were the
most generous and comely animals we had; that they excelled in strength and
swiftness; and when they belonged to persons of quality, were employed in
travelling, racing, or drawing chariots; they were treated with much kindness
and care, till they fell into diseases, or became foundered in the feet; but
then they were sold, and used to all kind of drudgery till they died; after
which their skins were stripped, and sold for what they were worth, and their
bodies left to be devoured by dogs and birds of prey. But the common race of
horses had not so good fortune, being kept by farmers and carriers, and other
mean people, who put them to greater labour, and fed them worse.&rdquo; I
described, as well as I could, our way of riding; the shape and use of a
bridle, a saddle, a spur, and a whip; of harness and wheels. I added,
&ldquo;that we fastened plates of a certain hard substance, called iron, at the
bottom of their feet, to preserve their hoofs from being broken by the stony
ways, on which we often travelled.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
My master, after some expressions of great indignation, wondered &ldquo;how we
dared to venture upon a <i>Houyhnhnm&rsquo;s</i> back; for he was sure, that
the weakest servant in his house would be able to shake off the strongest
<i>Yahoo</i>; or by lying down and rolling on his back, squeeze the brute to
death.&rdquo; I answered &ldquo;that our horses were trained up, from three or
four years old, to the several uses we intended them for; that if any of them
proved intolerably vicious, they were employed for carriages; that they were
severely beaten, while they were young, for any mischievous tricks; that the
males, designed for the common use of riding or draught, were generally
castrated about two years after their birth, to take down their spirits, and
make them more tame and gentle; that they were indeed sensible of rewards and
punishments; but his honour would please to consider, that they had not the
least tincture of reason, any more than the <i>Yahoos</i> in this
country.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
It put me to the pains of many circumlocutions, to give my master a right idea
of what I spoke; for their language does not abound in variety of words,
because their wants and passions are fewer than among us. But it is impossible
to express his noble resentment at our savage treatment of the <i>Houyhnhnm</i>
race; particularly after I had explained the manner and use of castrating
horses among us, to hinder them from propagating their kind, and to render them
more servile. He said, &ldquo;if it were possible there could be any country
where <i>Yahoos</i> alone were endued with reason, they certainly must be the
governing animal; because reason in time will always prevail against brutal
strength. But, considering the frame of our bodies, and especially of mine, he
thought no creature of equal bulk was so ill-contrived for employing that
reason in the common offices of life;&rdquo; whereupon he desired to know
&ldquo;whether those among whom I lived resembled me, or the <i>Yahoos</i> of
his country?&rdquo; I assured him, &ldquo;that I was as well shaped as most of
my age; but the younger, and the females, were much more soft and tender, and
the skins of the latter generally as white as milk.&rdquo; He said, &ldquo;I
differed indeed from other <i>Yahoos</i>, being much more cleanly, and not
altogether so deformed; but, in point of real advantage, he thought I differed
for the worse: that my nails were of no use either to my fore or hinder feet;
as to my forefeet, he could not properly call them by that name, for he never
observed me to walk upon them; that they were too soft to bear the ground; that
I generally went with them uncovered; neither was the covering I sometimes wore
on them of the same shape, or so strong as that on my feet behind: that I could
not walk with any security, for if either of my hinder feet slipped, I must
inevitably fall.&rdquo; He then began to find fault with other parts of my
body: &ldquo;the flatness of my face, the prominence of my nose, my eyes
placed directly in front, so that I could not look on either side without
turning my head: that I was not able to feed myself, without lifting one of my
forefeet to my mouth: and therefore nature had placed those joints to answer
that necessity. He knew not what could be the use of those several clefts and
divisions in my feet behind; that these were too soft to bear the hardness and
sharpness of stones, without a covering made from the skin of some other brute;
that my whole body wanted a fence against heat and cold, which I was forced to
put on and off every day, with tediousness and trouble: and lastly, that he
observed every animal in this country naturally to abhor the <i>Yahoos</i>,
whom the weaker avoided, and the stronger drove from them. So that, supposing
us to have the gift of reason, he could not see how it were possible to cure
that natural antipathy, which every creature discovered against us; nor
consequently how we could tame and render them serviceable. However, he
would,&rdquo; as he said, &ldquo;debate the matter no farther, because he was
more desirous to know my own story, the country where I was born, and the
several actions and events of my life, before I came hither.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
I assured him, &ldquo;how extremely desirous I was that he should be satisfied
on every point; but I doubted much, whether it would be possible for me to
explain myself on several subjects, whereof his honour could have no
conception; because I saw nothing in his country to which I could resemble
them; that, however, I would do my best, and strive to express myself by
similitudes, humbly desiring his assistance when I wanted proper words;&rdquo;
which he was pleased to promise me.
</p>

<p>
I said, &ldquo;my birth was of honest parents, in an island called England;
which was remote from his country, as many days&rsquo; journey as the strongest
of his honour&rsquo;s servants could travel in the annual course of the sun;
that I was bred a surgeon, whose trade it is to cure wounds and hurts in the
body, gotten by accident or violence; that my country was governed by a female
man, whom we called queen; that I left it to get riches, whereby I might
maintain myself and family, when I should return; that, in my last voyage, I
was commander of the ship, and had about fifty <i>Yahoos</i> under me, many of
which died at sea, and I was forced to supply them by others picked out from
several nations; that our ship was twice in danger of being sunk, the first
time by a great storm, and the second by striking against a rock.&rdquo; Here
my master interposed, by asking me, &ldquo;how I could persuade strangers, out
of different countries, to venture with me, after the losses I had sustained,
and the hazards I had run?&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;they were fellows of desperate
fortunes, forced to fly from the places of their birth on account of their
poverty or their crimes. Some were undone by lawsuits; others spent all they
had in drinking, whoring, and gaming; others fled for treason; many for murder,
theft, poisoning, robbery, perjury, forgery, coining false money, for
committing rapes, or sodomy; for flying from their colours, or deserting to the
enemy; and most of them had broken prison; none of these durst return to their
native countries, for fear of being hanged, or of starving in a jail; and
therefore they were under the necessity of seeking a livelihood in other
places.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
During this discourse, my master was pleased to interrupt me several times. I
had made use of many circumlocutions in describing to him the nature of the
several crimes for which most of our crew had been forced to fly their country.
This labour took up several days&rsquo; conversation, before he was able to
comprehend me. He was wholly at a loss to know what could be the use or
necessity of practising those vices. To clear up which, I endeavoured to give
some ideas of the desire of power and riches; of the terrible effects of lust,
intemperance, malice, and envy. All this I was forced to define and describe by
putting cases and making suppositions. After which, like one whose imagination
was struck with something never seen or heard of before, he would lift up his
eyes with amazement and indignation. Power, government, war, law, punishment,
and a thousand other things, had no terms wherein that language could express
them, which made the difficulty almost insuperable, to give my master any
conception of what I meant. But being of an excellent understanding, much
improved by contemplation and converse, he at last arrived at a competent
knowledge of what human nature, in our parts of the world, is capable to
perform, and desired I would give him some particular account of that land
which we call Europe, but especially of my own country.
</p>

</div><!--end chapter-->

<div class="chapter">

<h3>CHAPTER V.</h3>

<p class="letter">
The author at his master&rsquo;s command, informs him of the state of England.
The causes of war among the princes of Europe. The author begins to explain the
English constitution.
</p>

<p>
The reader may please to observe, that the following extract of many
conversations I had with my master, contains a summary of the most material
points which were discoursed at several times for above two years; his honour
often desiring fuller satisfaction, as I farther improved in the
<i>Houyhnhnm</i> tongue. I laid before him, as well as I could, the whole state
of Europe; I discoursed of trade and manufactures, of arts and sciences; and
the answers I gave to all the questions he made, as they arose upon several
subjects, were a fund of conversation not to be exhausted. But I shall here
only set down the substance of what passed between us concerning my own
country, reducing it in order as well as I can, without any regard to time or
other circumstances, while I strictly adhere to truth. My only concern is, that
I shall hardly be able to do justice to my master&rsquo;s arguments and
expressions, which must needs suffer by my want of capacity, as well as by a
translation into our barbarous English.
</p>

<p>
In obedience, therefore, to his honour&rsquo;s commands, I related to him the
Revolution under the Prince of Orange; the long war with France, entered into
by the said prince, and renewed by his successor, the present queen, wherein
the greatest powers of Christendom were engaged, and which still continued: I
computed, at his request, &ldquo;that about a million of <i>Yahoos</i> might
have been killed in the whole progress of it; and perhaps a hundred or more
cities taken, and five times as many ships burnt or sunk.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
He asked me, &ldquo;what were the usual causes or motives that made one country
go to war with another?&rdquo; I answered &ldquo;they were innumerable; but I
should only mention a few of the chief. Sometimes the ambition of princes, who
never think they have land or people enough to govern; sometimes the corruption
of ministers, who engage their master in a war, in order to stifle or divert
the clamour of the subjects against their evil administration. Difference in
opinions has cost many millions of lives: for instance, whether flesh be bread,
or bread be flesh; whether the juice of a certain berry be blood or wine;
whether whistling be a vice or a virtue; whether it be better to kiss a post,
or throw it into the fire; what is the best colour for a coat, whether black,
white, red, or gray; and whether it should be long or short, narrow or wide,
dirty or clean; with many more. Neither are any wars so furious and bloody, or
of so long a continuance, as those occasioned by difference in opinion,
especially if it be in things indifferent.
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;Sometimes the quarrel between two princes is to decide which of them
shall dispossess a third of his dominions, where neither of them pretend to any
right. Sometimes one prince quarrels with another for fear the other should
quarrel with him. Sometimes a war is entered upon, because the enemy is too
strong; and sometimes, because he is too weak. Sometimes our neighbours want
the things which we have, or have the things which we want, and we both fight,
till they take ours, or give us theirs. It is a very justifiable cause of a
war, to invade a country after the people have been wasted by famine, destroyed
by pestilence, or embroiled by factions among themselves. It is justifiable to
enter into war against our nearest ally, when one of his towns lies convenient
for us, or a territory of land, that would render our dominions round and
complete. If a prince sends forces into a nation, where the people are poor and
ignorant, he may lawfully put half of them to death, and make slaves of the
rest, in order to civilize and reduce them from their barbarous way of living.
It is a very kingly, honourable, and frequent practice, when one prince desires
the assistance of another, to secure him against an invasion, that the
assistant, when he has driven out the invader, should seize on the dominions
himself, and kill, imprison, or banish, the prince he came to relieve. Alliance
by blood, or marriage, is a frequent cause of war between princes; and the
nearer the kindred is, the greater their disposition to quarrel; poor nations
are hungry, and rich nations are proud; and pride and hunger will ever be at
variance. For these reasons, the trade of a soldier is held the most honourable
of all others; because a soldier is a <i>Yahoo</i> hired to kill, in cold
blood, as many of his own species, who have never offended him, as possibly he
can.
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;There is likewise a kind of beggarly princes in Europe, not able to make
war by themselves, who hire out their troops to richer nations, for so much a
day to each man; of which they keep three-fourths to themselves, and it is the
best part of their maintenance: such are those in many northern parts of
Europe.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;What you have told me,&rdquo; said my master, &ldquo;upon the subject of
war, does indeed discover most admirably the effects of that reason you pretend
to: however, it is happy that the shame is greater than the danger; and that
nature has left you utterly incapable of doing much mischief. For, your mouths
lying flat with your faces, you can hardly bite each other to any purpose,
unless by consent. Then as to the claws upon your feet before and behind, they
are so short and tender, that one of our <i>Yahoos</i> would drive a dozen of
yours before him. And therefore, in recounting the numbers of those who have
been killed in battle, I cannot but think you have said the thing which is
not.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
I could not forbear shaking my head, and smiling a little at his ignorance. And
being no stranger to the art of war, I gave him a description of cannons,
culverins, muskets, carabines, pistols, bullets, powder, swords, bayonets,
battles, sieges, retreats, attacks, undermines, countermines, bombardments, sea
fights, ships sunk with a thousand men, twenty thousand killed on each side,
dying groans, limbs flying in the air, smoke, noise, confusion, trampling to
death under horses&rsquo; feet, flight, pursuit, victory; fields strewed with
carcases, left for food to dogs and wolves and birds of prey; plundering,
stripping, ravishing, burning, and destroying. And to set forth the valour of
my own dear countrymen, I assured him, &ldquo;that I had seen them blow up a
hundred enemies at once in a siege, and as many in a ship, and beheld the dead
bodies drop down in pieces from the clouds, to the great diversion of the
spectators.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
I was going on to more particulars, when my master commanded me silence. He
said, &ldquo;whoever understood the nature of <i>Yahoos</i>, might easily
believe it possible for so vile an animal to be capable of every action I had
named, if their strength and cunning equalled their malice. But as my discourse
had increased his abhorrence of the whole species, so he found it gave him a
disturbance in his mind to which he was wholly a stranger before. He thought
his ears, being used to such abominable words, might, by degrees, admit them
with less detestation: that although he hated the <i>Yahoos</i> of this
country, yet he no more blamed them for their odious qualities, than he did a
<i>gnnayh</i> (a bird of prey) for its cruelty, or a sharp stone for cutting
his hoof. But when a creature pretending to reason could be capable of such
enormities, he dreaded lest the corruption of that faculty might be worse than
brutality itself. He seemed therefore confident, that, instead of reason we
were only possessed of some quality fitted to increase our natural vices; as
the reflection from a troubled stream returns the image of an ill-shapen body,
not only larger but more distorted.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
He added, &ldquo;that he had heard too much upon the subject of war, both in
this and some former discourses. There was another point, which a little
perplexed him at present. I had informed him, that some of our crew left their
country on account of being ruined by law; that I had already explained the
meaning of the word; but he was at a loss how it should come to pass, that the
law, which was intended for every man&rsquo;s preservation, should be any
man&rsquo;s ruin. Therefore he desired to be further satisfied what I meant by
law, and the dispensers thereof, according to the present practice in my own
country; because he thought nature and reason were sufficient guides for a
reasonable animal, as we pretended to be, in showing us what we ought to do,
and what to avoid.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
I assured his honour, &ldquo;that  law was a science in which I had not much
conversed, further than by employing advocates, in vain, upon some injustices
that had been done me: however, I would give him all the satisfaction I was
able.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
I said, &ldquo;there was a society of men among us, bred up from their youth in
the art of proving, by words multiplied for the purpose, that white is black,
and black is white, according as they are paid. To this society all the rest of
the people are slaves. For example, if my neighbour has a mind to my cow, he
has a lawyer to prove that he ought to have my cow from me. I must then hire
another to defend my right, it being against all rules of law that any man
should be allowed to speak for himself. Now, in this case, I, who am the right
owner, lie under two great disadvantages: first, my lawyer, being practised
almost from his cradle in defending falsehood, is quite out of his element when
he would be an advocate for justice, which is an unnatural office he always
attempts with great awkwardness, if not with ill-will. The second disadvantage
is, that my lawyer must proceed with great caution, or else he will be
reprimanded by the judges, and abhorred by his brethren, as one that would
lessen the practice of the law. And therefore I have but two methods to
preserve my cow. The first is, to gain over my adversary&rsquo;s lawyer with a
double fee, who will then betray his client by insinuating that he hath justice
on his side. The second way is for my lawyer to make my cause appear as unjust
as he can, by allowing the cow to belong to my adversary: and this, if it be
skilfully done, will certainly bespeak the favour of the bench. Now your honour
is to know, that these judges are persons appointed to decide all controversies
of property, as well as for the trial of criminals, and picked out from the
most dexterous lawyers, who are grown old or lazy; and having been biassed all
their lives against truth and equity, lie under such a fatal necessity of
favouring fraud, perjury, and oppression, that I have known some of them refuse
a large bribe from the side where justice lay, rather than injure the faculty,
by doing any thing unbecoming their nature or their office.
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;It is a maxim among these lawyers that whatever has been done before,
may legally be done again: and therefore they take special care to record all
the decisions formerly made against common justice, and the general reason of
mankind. These, under the name of precedents, they produce as authorities to
justify the most iniquitous opinions; and the judges never fail of directing
accordingly.
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;In pleading, they studiously avoid entering into the merits of the
cause; but are loud, violent, and tedious, in dwelling upon all circumstances
which are not to the purpose. For instance, in the case already mentioned; they
never desire to know what claim or title my adversary has to my cow; but
whether the said cow were red or black; her horns long or short; whether the
field I graze her in be round or square; whether she was milked at home or
abroad; what diseases she is subject to, and the like; after which they consult
precedents, adjourn the cause from time to time, and in ten, twenty, or thirty
years, come to an issue.
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;It is likewise to be observed, that this society has a peculiar cant and
jargon of their own, that no other mortal can understand, and wherein all their
laws are written, which they take special care to multiply; whereby they have
wholly confounded the very essence of truth and falsehood, of right and wrong;
so that it will take thirty years to decide, whether the field left me by my
ancestors for six generations belongs to me, or to a stranger three hundred
miles off.
</p>

<p>
&ldquo;In the trial of persons accused for crimes against the state, the method
is much more short and commendable: the judge first sends to sound the
disposition of those in power, after which he can easily hang or save a
criminal, strictly preserving all due forms of law.&rdquo;
</p>

<p>
Here my master interposing, said, &ldquo;it was a pity, that creatures endowed
with such prodigious abilities of mind, as these lawyers, by the description I
gave of them, must certainly be, were not rather encouraged to be instructors
of others in wisdom and knowledge.&rdquo; In answer to which I assured his
honour, &ldquo;that in all points out of their own trade, they were usually the
most ignorant and stupid generation among us, the most despicable in common
conversation, avowed enemies to all knowledge and learning, and equally
disposed to pervert the general reason of mankind in eve + .txt
